Well, 100 classes ago, in September of 1966, the 42nd class of Gilead graduated.
Here's their picture.
Now, if you look carefully, back in the left corner, you'll see a young man who graduated
on that day.
That is our beloved brother, David Splein.
And so it seemed appropriate to mention this occasion being its 100 classes ago.
I did say classes not years.
We're now looking forward to hearing from our dear brother, Splein.
He is going to give us the talk, don't forget the purpose.
I'm glad they didn't get a hold of my baby picture.
That was my baby picture.
Well, I know that all of you students will agree that Gilead School has been a marvelous
expression of Jehovah's undeserved kindness.
A dream come true.
But really, all of us have been recipients of Jehovah's undeserved kindness in so many
ways.
All of us have received training in so many ways.
So really, the Apostle Paul's words recorded at 2 Corinthians chapter 6 can apply to
all of us.
Let's look it up.
2 Corinthians chapter 6, we're going to read verses 1 and 2.
2 Corinthians chapter 6, 1 and 2.
And here Paul writes, working together with him, we also urge you not to accept the
undeserved kindness of God and miss its purpose.
That's the theme of the talk, don't miss the purpose.
And then verse 2 says, for he says, in an acceptable time I heard you, and in a day of salvation
I helped you, look, now is the especially acceptable time.
Look, now is the day of salvation.
Now let's focus, first of all, on the first words that Paul writes here, working together
with him.
And that really explains why Paul's ministry was such a success.
Now Paul was a worker, but it wasn't enough to be a worker.
Paul's ministry was successful because Paul was working together with Jehovah God.
It was Jehovah's purpose that counted.
As brother Samuelson brought out this morning, it was Jehovah's agenda that counted with
the Apostle Paul.
Well our goal should be the same.
And we could be tested at times.
Verse back home, you're waiting for a decision, and the decision is a long time coming.
And you could be tempted to run ahead as we've heard this morning, act on your own.
You'd be working, but when that temptation arises, keep repeating to yourself, working together
with him, working together with him, and it'll help.
It'll help you to work within the bounds that the organization has set.
And we heard about that this morning as well.
Now notice at the beginning of verse two, Paul has been doing some reading.
First words, for he says, and then Paul quotes scripture.
And it will be useful to us to look up the scripture that Paul is quoting because it
helps us to understand his thinking.
When Paul was reading this verse or this passage, what was it that helped him to make the
connection with the idea of working together with Jehovah?
The scripture, Isaiah, chapter 49, verses 8 and 9.
So let's read that, Isaiah, chapter 49, verses 8 and 9.
Now as I read this, I'd like you to see if you can guess when this scripture had its
first fulfillment.
It has two fulfillments.
See if you can guess when the scripture was first fulfilled, verse 8.
This is what Jehovah says, in a time of favor I answered you, and in a day of salvation
I helped you.
I kept safeguarding you to give you as a covenant for the people to rehabilitate the land,
to cause them to possess their desolate inheritances to say to the prisoners, come out.
You got it?
Sure.
This scripture was fulfilled when the Israelites were being released from Babylonian captivity.
We have a few hints there to rehabilitate the land, desolate inheritances to say to the
prisoners, come out.
But now they were released from Babylon, but what was the purpose?
It was twofold, a, to resettle Jerusalem and b, to reestablish pure worship, the pure
worship of Jehovah.
Now all is telling the Corinthians, we have to work together with Jehovah God.
And he's been reading Isaiah 49, 8 and 9.
What's the connection?
Now to rehabilitate a land that had leoned desolate for 70 years would require a lot of work.
So those who agreed to leave Babylon and come back to Jerusalem would have to be hard workers.
But it wasn't enough to be a hard worker.
To be successful they would have to be working along with Jehovah God because Jehovah God
had a purpose in bringing them back to Babylon.
It wasn't just so they could come back to Jerusalem.
His purpose was to get his pure worship reestablished.
So they were going to have to work together with him.
Now as the watchtower pointed out recently, it would be a sacrifice on the part of something
to leave Babylon and go back to Jerusalem.
Why?
Well, do you remember what Jehovah had told the Israelites, the Jews when they went to Babylon,
build houses and live in them, plant gardens and eat their fruit, pray for the peace of the city
because in its peace you will have peace.
So life in Babylon, captivity in Babylon wasn't totally like slavery in Egypt.
In fact, some Jews got rich in Babylon.
Some became buyers and sellers of precious gems and it's thought that it's in Babylon
that the Jews learned trade and commerce.
How to buy and sell so well, they didn't learn that on the pastures of Judah, that's for sure.
And so it would have been a sacrifice on the part of some to leave Babylon and go to Jerusalem.
Hard workers were willing to do that.
Now the returning Jews started out very well, but they ran into problems.
They ran into problems with the building of the temple.
And as a result, they continued working, but they weren't working together with Jehovah anymore.
They were building houses, decorating them.
They were starting a business.
They were looking after their own families, their own lives.
Now could it be that some of them had reasoned, I've sacrificed enough.
I've left a comfortable life in Babylon to come here to this wasteland,
and that's a lot more than my brothers in Babylon have done.
I've sacrificed enough.
It's time to look after my own family, look after my own children, let the young people do their share.
Well, we don't know what they were reasoning.
But the fact is that part B of Jehovah's purpose to reestablish pure worship was not being fulfilled.
So they were not working together with Jehovah God.
Application.
All of you have made considerable sacrifices in order to go to your present assignments.
Most of you were not born in your assignments.
You went there of your own volition, and you made a lot of sacrifices.
You learned another language, you made financial, material sacrifices, and so on.
But you know there's a danger.
As we get older, there can be a tendency for us to feel, you know, I've sacrificed enough.
Why not let the young people do more?
Especially when we see those are our own age who are taking it easy.
They'll be in the new world.
Why do I have to work so hard?
And so off we're not careful, we could lose sight of the purpose of our training, and we don't want to do that.
Now there's a second application to Isaiah 49, and we know that because of the way Paul puts it in 2 Corinthians 6.
Let's go back there, 2 Corinthians 6.
And you can leave your Bibles open there because for the rest of this discussion, we're going to be considering verses in 2 Corinthians 6.
Now I'm going to read verse 2, and see if you can figure out how we know that Paul sees more than one application to this scripture, Isaiah 49.
Verse 2, for he says, in an acceptable time I heard you, and in a day of salvation I helped you, look, now is not
acceptable, but the especially acceptable time, look, now is the day of salvation.
You got it, didn't you?
The definite and indefinite articles.
When Paul is thinking about the deliverance of the Jews from Babylon, quoting Jehovah God, it's an acceptable time, it's a day of salvation, that was one application of the prophecy.
But now Paul is telling the Christians that there's something much better.
Now is the especially acceptable time, now is the day of salvation.
Yes, when the Jews were delivered from Babylon, your worship was going to be reestablished.
But what about today?
What about the work Christians are doing today?
The everlasting future of people is involved.
And so if workers were needed back then, when the Jews were leaving Babylon, how hard should we be working today?
The lives of people are at stake.
And so no matter how busy you are, no matter whether you're in Bethel, don't neglect the field.
Have a zealous share in the preaching work.
This is the work that Jesus commanded us to do.
Jesus never spent a day in Bethel.
He'll be very interested in what you do in Bethel, but he'll be even more interested in what you're doing in the field.
Now let's focus on Jehovah's undeserved kindness.
We talk about the undeserved kindness of being able to come to Gilead and get this special training.
But now what was the purpose?
Why were you selected to come to Gilead and get this training?
Well, you're probably wondering that yourselves.
You were selected, first of all, because you're workers, you're hard workers.
But you were also chosen because we believe that you were going to use your training unselfishly for the benefit of others.
And how many speakers on this platform today have made that point?
The training is not to be kept to yourselves.
You have been trained so that you can unselfishly benefit other people.
You have been trained to be more effective in serving others.
Now when you return home, we know that your friends and fellow workers are going to be very pleased.
Your humility.
You're not going to be flashing your diploma, either physically or literally or figuratively.
You're not going to be flaunting your knowledge.
You're not going to be correcting every small mistake and procedure.
You're going to earn the respect of your fellow workers because of your humility,
because of your willingness to work alongside them and to do whatever needs to be done.
In fact, the most powerful lesson that you teach may not be in anything you say,
but it may be in your humility.
Your willingness to work humbly along with any arrangement or any assignment that has given you.
In this, you'll be copying Paul's example.
If you've kept your Bible open at 2 Corinthians 6, we're going to be reading a few more verses.
Now Paul mentions a lot in verses 4 to 6.
A lot is involved in humbly serving the needs of our brothers,
and we're going to just highlight a few of these, verses 4 to 6.
Paul writes,
but in every way we recommend ourselves as God's ministers by the endurance of much.
By tribulations, by times of need, by difficulties, by meetings, by imprisonments, by riots,
by hard work, by sleepless nights, by times without food, by purity,
by knowledge, by patience, by kindness, by only spirit.
Now look at verse 4.
One of the things Paul mentions is endurance.
We recommend ourselves as God's ministers by endurance.
Now that's something all of us need to give attention to.
I suppose that you were serving at Bethel before Gilead,
and you really, really enjoyed your work assignment.
Well, you've been away for five months.
What do you suppose has been happening while you were away?
Someone else got that work assignment, and you know what?
He's doing very, very well at that assignment.
In fact, it may be that the department is not going to want to have you back
when you return.
And so you're given another assignment, one that you don't enjoy so much.
Now someone else might say, I've been trained at Gilead for this, but not you.
You're going to have the attitude, well, if the work needs to be done, why shouldn't I do it?
And you see, your humility is going to be so appreciated.
And remember, other Bethelites are watching you.
They're intelligent.
They know that you'd probably like to have had your old job back,
but your humility, insurefully applying yourself to whatever you're given to do,
is going to make a tremendous impression on them.
In fact, you know what?
You're going to go up 10 points in their estimation.
Well, you say, all right, I have to do it,
but do I really have to be cheerful about it?
Yes, you do.
That's a requirement.
And you know why?
At the regional convention last summer,
do you remember the definition of endurance?
It's not just a matter of sticking it out until something better comes along,
but we have to be cheerful.
We have to do what we're asked to do with a happy, positive attitude,
not always looking for additional responsibility,
more privileges, a different work assignment,
being happy with what we are given to do.
Are you folks understand that?
I would love you for it.
Now, in the same verse, verse four,
Paul mentions difficulties.
And there will be problems in the field.
There will be problems at Bethel from time to time.
And the question is this, will you be the type of person
that fellow Bethelites or those in the congregation
will want to talk to when difficulties arise?
Because whenever they talk to you, they always feel better after.
You have such a good, positive attitude.
What we know, you will.
Now, in verse five, Paul mentions hard work.
When brothers and sisters get together for a gathering,
we know that you're going to be one of the ones in the kitchen
or one of the ones who stays behind after to help clean up.
You're going to be volunteering to help clean the kingdom hall
or you're going to volunteer for a local construction project.
You're going to be known as someone who enjoys serving others,
someone who loves to get his hands dirty,
not someone who shows up in a lovely white suit
when there's work to be done.
Or if you have to wear a lovely white suit,
at least bring a change of clothes.
So you can roll up your sleeves and help with the work.
Well, notice in verse six, Paul mentions purity.
We would certainly never want to think that as long as we work hard
in our assignment at Bethel or in the field,
Jehovah will turn a blind eye to any immorality on our part.
Jehovah has no blind eye.
A Paul mentions kindness in the same verse.
Now, some of your brothers may get into a position of authority.
And the question is, how are you going to use your authority?
The proper use of authority is to help others, to benefit others.
And you will never, ever use your authority vindictively
to punish someone or to get even for some slight,
perhaps holding someone back from a deserved privilege
just because he offended you.
That's not the way we use authority.
In same verse, Paul talks about Holy Spirit.
And that's quite a help you to get along with others.
It'll help elders and department heads
to work peacefully to one another, with one another.
To speak kindly and respectfully to one another,
to listen, to really listen to one another.
Now, you may have a little difference
with someone in the congregation or at Bethel.
Then you hear that person give a morning worship comment
or a fine public talk in the congregation.
And his eyes shine as he's talking about the truth.
You're sitting there.
You observe that.
And it hits you.
This man, this man that I'm having a problem with,
really, really loves Jehovah.
And so do you.
You have that in common.
So now, can't you get the rest to work?
Now, if we walk by the Spirit, as we heard from Brother
Samuelson, we'll be careful not to lobby
or push our own agenda, because Jehovah might not
agree with our agenda.
And we'd never want to make the other elders
or the department feel that they can't make any decision
without our input.
We would never want them to feel that in our absence,
we would have to go back and revisit every decision
that has been made, as if they can't do a single thing without us,
because we're so clever, we've graduated from Gilead now.
We realize that they have Jehovah's Spirit, too.
So don't be too impressed with your own ideas.
I'm going to repeat that.
Don't be too impressed with your own ideas.
When no scriptural principle is involved,
we'll be willing to yield if the majority of the elders
make a decision that we don't particularly agree with.
So when that happens, don't pout, pray.
Ask Jehovah to bless the decision that was made.
The decision that you didn't particularly agree with.
Ask Jehovah to bless that decision.
And ask Jehovah to help you to be fully supportive
of the decision.
In that way, you'll be working along
with Jehovah's purpose and what's his purpose
to have a happy group of elders serving
the needs of their brothers and sisters.
If the elders are happy, note out the congregation
and the methyl family will be happy.
Be resolved to allow nothing and no one
to interfere with your unity on the body of elders.
I'm going to repeat that.
Be resolved to allow nothing or no one
to interfere with your unity on the body of elders.
Well, you know all these things.
These were just helpful reminders.
But your time at Gilead has been a dream come true.
But now it's time to use your training
to be of service to others.
Remember, you have been trained for a purpose
and the purpose to be more effective in unselfishly
serving others.
Never, ever forget the purpose.
And may God bless you.
Well, we sincerely thank you, brothers
plain, for those words of wisdom spoken from experience.
Well, now we're privileged to hear greetings
from our brothers and sisters of many different branches
that are thinking about us here today.
In fact, can you imagine 25 different branches
have sent greetings?
So let me just share a few of these with you.
Of course, we can't share all of them,
but perhaps I can just epitomize some of the messages.
For example, Armenia says, we are delighted
to see how Jehovah is training more brothers and sisters
to take on additional responsibilities in his organization
for the advancement of kingdom interests.
Benin says, we know that the Gilead School has left
an indelible impression on your mind
with memories you'll carry along all your life
and on your heart with a deeper appreciation and joy
in serving Jehovah in a closer relationship with him.
Bulgaria says, we wish all of you much joy on this special day.
Bulgaria branch keenly anticipates the arrival
of one couple from this class.
We pray for Jehovah's blessing on new students
wherever he asks you to serve him.
Italy said, with what will I repay Jehovah
for all the good he has done for me?
We are sure that these words well describe the feelings
of you students of the 142nd class.
We rejoice with you in this special occasion
and give thanks to Jehovah for the spiritual enrichment
you enjoyed.
We are confident it will be of great value to yourselves
and to the ones you'll be sharing it with in the days
to come, please receive the warmest brotherly affection
of the brothers in Italy.
And finally, Kazakhstan wrote and said,
we would like to take this opportunity to pass our love
and greetings to the 142nd class of Gilead
on this graduation day.
We are confident that they will never forget these
past five months as they have walked hand in hand
with our God, Jehovah, journeying page by page
through his word, the Bible.
Our thoughts and prayers are with them
on this momentous day.
Isn't that wonderful?
Well, now we know that many of you
like to hear the statistics about the class.
So let me share with you some of the details
about this class, the 142nd.
So the class was made up of nine single brothers,
four single sisters.
The average age of the students was 44.2.
The average years in the truth was 28.
And the average years in the full-time ministry was 21.6.
So obviously, a very mature class.
What a pleasure.
It's been to have them here at Patterson.
Well, now we're ready for the presentation of the diplomas,
the part that we always look forward to so much.
And Brother Ken Flodin, a helper to the teaching committee,
is going to assist me in presenting them.
We have Brother and Sister Aji Boya.
They'll be returning to Russia.
And this is Brother and Sister Aum.
They'll be returning to Nigeria.
Brother and Sister Andriyapulas, they'll return to Greece.
This is Brother Antoine.
He's going back to Haiti.
Brother Belus is returning to Ukraine.
And this is Brother and Sister Crips,
they'll return to Peru.
Sister D'Shavas, returning to the Philippines.
And this is Brother Durga Vorkian,
going back to Armenia.
Brother and Sister D'Shain, returning to Canada.
Brother and Sister Francholi, going back to Italy.
And now we have Brother and Sister Hoffman.
Now, Brother and Sister Hoffman have been serving
in the circuit work in France.
But they're receiving a new assignment today.
As some of you may know, the service committee
has set up some language circuits that span all of Europe
in order to try to move different language fields ahead.
And so Brother Hoffman will be taking up
a circuit in the Romany field that will
span several countries in Europe.
Sister Hubert.
Sister Hubert has been serving as a special pioneer in Paraguay.
But now she is going to take up a field missionary assignment
in a country where there is a great need for missionaries,
the United States.
Brother Hurley.
Brother Hurley has been serving at the branch office,
as you heard, in Australasia.
But now he's going to take up a new assignment
at the branch in Papua, New Guinea.
And Brother and Sister Jager and Oth are
going to return to Trinidad and Tobago.
Brother Colligia returning to Turkey.
This is Brother Kilgore.
Brother Kilgore has been serving at the branch office
in Canada.
But now he'll be taking up a new assignment
at the branch office in Mexico, the Central America branch.
Brother and Sister Mariah returned to Britain.
And Brother and Sister Mendeas are returning
to Central America.
And this is Brother and Sister Mensa returning to Liberia.
Sister Gomez returning to Tanzania.
This is Brother Nanjiri.
He's returning to Burundi.
Brother and Sister Pallanen.
Now Brother and Sister Pallanen have been
serving for some years at the branch office in Finland.
But now they're receiving a new assignment
to serve at the branch office in Bulgaria.
Next is Brother and Sister Chefsick.
They'll be going back to Central Europe.
Brother Tamayo returns to Ecuador.
And Brother and Sister Topia will also
be going back to Ecuador.
Now Brother Thomas has been serving at the branch office
in Central Europe.
But now he's going to take up a new assignment
in the branch office in Benin.
And this is our last couple.
Brother and Sister Vickner returning to Scandinavia.
Now that all of our students have officially graduated,
would you like to see now the 142nd class
of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead?
Brother Sebastian Hoffman has been selected
to read the class letter.
They're governing body and battle family.
In one of the most beautiful inspired expressions
of praise to Jehovah, King David of Old said,
and now, oh our God, we thank you and praise
your beautiful name.
With those words, at the close of his 40-year reign,
David expressed his lifelong feelings for Jehovah.
And here we are, the 142nd class of Gilead,
at the close of our 20-week course of Bible education
with those very same feelings.
As we have submitted to Jehovah's molding of our hearts
and minds, we have come to appreciate more than ever
the beauty of the oldest personality in the universe,
Jehovah's personality.
We have chosen it to be our own new personality.
We have deeply appreciated being taught by you,
members of the governing body.
Despite your busy and demanding schedules,
you made time to travel to Patterson
to share with us your love for Jehovah's name and for his word.
We heard it in your expressions, and we saw it in your eyes.
The way you welcomed us into your beautiful new home
in Warwick and gave us of your time
will live long in our memory.
You strengthened our trust and respect
for Jehovah's organization.
Our prayer is that Jehovah give you brothers the Holy Spirit
and energy you need to carry out your assignments
as the end draws near.
Throughout our schooling, we felt the power of God's word
at work in our students.
The Bible has proven to be a mirror
in which we have examined ourselves.
You, our dear instructors,
held that mirror up in front of us every day.
With kindness, love, patience and reassurance,
you helped us to look for attitudes, thoughts,
and inclinations within ourselves
that are not a reflection of Jehovah.
We have come to see who we really are,
who Jehovah wants us to be, and how we can bridge that gap.
Every step of the way, you guided us with God's word
and never your own opinion.
What a lesson that has been to us all.
In the imitation of the Apostle Paul,
you imparted to us not only the good news of God,
but also your very selves
because you became beloved to you
and you have become beloved to us.
As a class, we must acknowledge
that part of the education we received
has been outside of the Gilead classroom.
From the very first day we arrived
at the Patterson Educational Center,
our education began.
The friends at reception, our hosts,
and the entire Bethel family
immediately made us feel at home.
We experienced the same love and brotherly affection
when we visited War Kill and Warwick.
Over the last five months, we learned much observing you.
How you responded to direction that you received
and humbly followed through.
How you reacted to the loss of members
of the Bethel family in death.
And how quick you were to offer comfort and assistance.
Thank you for your constancy
in making yourselves available for us.
How can we ever forget the line of cars of Bethelites
queuing up outside our residence building
ready and willing to take us to the meetings
and in the ministry every week.
You really went the extra mile for us.
As we live this awesome place,
we take with us an unforgettable
and rich spiritual heritage.
What will we do with it?
Our determination is the same as that of King David.
As Sam 145 versus 1 in 2, he promised Jehovah,
I will exalt you, oh my God, the King,
I will praise your name forever and ever.
All day long, I will praise you.
May the blessing of Jehovah our God,
be upon all those who praise his name forever.
With all our appreciation, we love you very much.
Your brothers, 142nd Class of Gilead.
We thank you very much for that beautiful, beautiful letter.
Well, we've come to the concluding remarks
of our Gilead program.
At the beginning, we discussed the importance
of praying to Jehovah to open our eyes
and help us see clearly his word.
You know, over time, because of imperfection,
our vision tends to deteriorate.
And as a result, we may have to constantly
be seeking a brighter light
in order for us to see things more clearly.
Well, in the same way, as you will deal with your own imperfections,
as you'll deal with the imperfections of others,
as you'll cope with health problems
and a host of other things that will come to all of us
as we live in this system, you'll need to look back
to God's word again and again and again.
In a sense to turn up the light
so that you can see clearly what Jehovah's will
will be in so many areas of your life.
And at times, you may scratch your head and say,
Jehovah, I just don't know what to do.
But if you do not tire of returning over
and over again to God's word, he will show you the way.
And the words of Joshua, chapter one,
will prove to be true in your case.
Let's read this together in Joshua chapter one and verse seven.
This is what Jehovah said to Joshua,
only be courageous and very strong
and observe carefully the entire law
that Moses, my servant, commanded you.
Do not deviate from it either to the right or to the left
so that you may act wisely wherever you go.
This book of the law should not depart from your mouth
and you must read in it an undertone day and night
in order to observe carefully all that is written in it
for then your way will be successful
and then you will act wisely.
Have I not commanded you?
Be courageous and strong.
Do not be struck with terror or fear
for Jehovah your God is with you wherever you go.
Well, please know that the good wishes,
the hopes, the prayers of all of us go with you today
for your success in your assignment
and may Jehovah God be with you wherever you go.
Well, I know you'll want to know about our attendance.
We had many sites tied in today.
So here are our attendance figures.
For Canada, we had 838.
In the United States at Patterson,
we had 3,469 in Brooklyn, 328 at Fishkill, 130,
at Walkill, 2,502 at Warwick, 1,571 in Curacao, 71,
in Florida and Fort Lauderdale, 137 in Jamaica, 14.
In Miraloma, we're not certain
because the program will not yet start
for a few more minutes, but we'll find out in due time.
And in Puerto Rico, 149.
So that gives us a grand total of 10,109.
Well, brothers, we've had a wonderful program today.
We have one last chance to participate in the program
by standing now and singing song number 150,
seek God for your deliverance.
And then following the song, brother Herman van Selm,
a helper to the writing committee,
will offer our concluding prayer.
That's song 150.